# Movie Recommendation Chatbot! 

The aim is to build a chatbot somewhat similar to ELIZA. 

## A little bit of background
In the early 1960s, the well-known early artificial intelligence (AI) program ELIZA made a big impact after showing its ability to process input and produce 
output expressed in natural language. [ELIZA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ELIZA) was one of the first conversational agents in AI, designed to simulate 
intelligent conversations, also known as chatbots. Developed by [Joseph Weizenbaum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Weizenbaum) at MIT, ELIZA had several 
modules to interact in English, German, and Welsh, and different modes of operation. The most famous was a module that simulated the interaction with a 
[Rogerian psychotherapist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Person-centered_therapy). A typical conversation with ELIZA (all caps) was as follows:

    You are like my father in some ways.
    WHAT RESEMBLANCE DO YOU SEE
    You are not very aggressive but I think you don't want me to notice that.
    WHAT MAKES YOU THINK I AM NOT AGGRESSIVE
    You don't argue with me.
    WHY DO YOU THINK I DON'T ARGUE WITH YOU
    You are afraid of me.
    DOES IT PLEASE YOU TO BELIEVE I AM AFRAID OF YOU`

After the initial success by ELIZA, a number of other chatbots were created with increased complexity – as an example, on the late 70s a chatbot named
[PARRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PARRY), created by Stanford’s Psychiatry professor [Kenneth Colby](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_Colby), 
simulated a psychotic patient that used a belief system internally, allowing for more complex behavior.

## High-level specification
Conversational agents like ELIZA can be decomposed into four modules (see Jurafsky and Martin 2008, [Norvig 1991](https://github.com/norvig/paip-lisp)), 
each one responsible for a specific task:

1. Read the input.
2. Extract relevant information from the input, which can be domain specific – as in our movie recommender chatbot.
3. Transform the input into a response – users normally expect a response in the given domain.
4. Print the response.

This project is about implementing modules (2) and (3).

## Code Structure
Modules (1) and (4) are provided using a common pattern in software engineering known as the Read-Eval-Print-Loop, REPL. The REPL creates a prompt that
gets an input string from the user (module 1). Then the REPL passes the input to a chatbot class that is responsible for doing the work in modules (2) and (3). 
The response generated by the chatbot class is then handled again by the REPL, which prints the response and waits for more input. 

## Running the starter code
In the starter code folder, fire up the REPL by issuing the following command:
`python repl.py`

## Interacting with the REPL
You can type your message in the prompt to moviebot, our default chatbot, and hit enter. To exit the REPL, write `:quit` (or press Ctrl-C to force the exit).
Right now the chatbot is not doing anything more than printing the string you entered – concatenated to a string that says it processed it.

## Interacting with REPL via testing scripts
In the testing/test_scripts/ folder, you will find some testing scripts. To run a script, enter the following command (replace testing/test_scripts/simple.txt 
with your desired script):

    python repl.py < testing/test_scripts/simple.txt
    
As you can see, each line of `simple.txt` is entered consecutively into the chatbot. However, the script terminates once it hits `:quit` and any lines afterwards
will not be executed.

## My Chatbot 
All the code for my chatbot is in `chatbot.py`. Open that file and follow the instructions there to change the name of the chatbot, the greeting message, and 
the goodbye message. You can change your chatbot’s name now!

### Chatbot Features 

